I screwed it up. I wasn't proud of it. I could try to get rid of it. But anyway, it's not that I'm a gourmet cook. I hate that word.
It's just that if I eat something someplace and I like it, I like to figure out how it's done and try to duplicate it as well.
What about you?
Oh, no. I was just wondering when I read some of your works and some of the food you come up with on various planets.
Oh, well.
Yeah, I get hungry.
I couldn't. A lot of that junk I wouldn't know where. I can't read potatoes.
Yeah. Okay. He's got the tape running, so I'll just get through these other questions. So we're being taped again.
Yeah.
Do you sail well over in Europe?
Well, it varies. Essentially, yes, I do. Especially in the Netherlands, Holland.
Then I do well in France and in Germany, England, and less extent Italy and in Spain, I don't think there's...
Nobody does too well. It's the Portuguese group, but it's nice.
Best I've Sello is in Holland. Next to all about the same.
Sweet or the Scandinavia, nobody does very well up there either. They all read English.
There's very few... they're not breaking the market for translations. Translations in Swedish, maybe.
A lot of English books over there. Anybody who likes science fiction generally gets an English.
Well, have you been translated into a number of languages then?
Yeah. Yeah. Just all the usual ones, anyway.
I don't become translated into Mugarek or Tasmanian or anything like that, but just usual languages.
I don't know if I've sold anything in Russia or not. I just don't know.
The pirates, you know, they might have... I suspect not though. Too much of a non-collectivist, I think, is sort of...
It also, I don't attack the institutions of the United States, if you want to sell in Russia, then you have to be very stern, critical of conventional institutions.
Rather than attacking, I kind of admire the world of the United States. It's amazingly well how well it functions.
Obvious drawbacks, obvious discrepancies, but when you think how complicated this country we live in is, how many people are all individuals?
Not necessarily working against each other, but in competition with each other. It's amazing how many happy people the system is able to keep going.
That's enough to say that I am endorsing every aspect of life, obviously. But I still sometimes wonder about it.
It just seems that... Well, that's enough of that.
Yeah, okay. In the 60s you did some mystery writing. In fact, I think you're the only person who's ever won both the Hugo and the Edgar Award
for science fiction and the Edgar for mysteries.
Paul Anderson did.
Paul Anderson did?
Yeah.
Oh, I didn't know that. We talked to him last year.
I was going to ask you, what made you try the mystery?
Well, what I read, the fun... That's the stuff I read. I don't ever read any so-called science fiction. That's the last thing I've read.
But I don't even read much mysteries. But all about every three years I may go on a kind of a mystery kick, pick up maybe four or five of them, go through them.
And then I've done for a while. But it's kind of an artificial field like science fiction is, in a way.
Let's scratch that, Bill. Take that out.
Okay.
It's artificial is the wrong word. And if I try to explain myself, I'd be talking too long.
But anyway, I do like... I like mysteries. In fact, I do some more of them at the time. I don't do them because there's none of money in them. I think for money in science fiction there's mysteries.
Well, isn't some of your science fiction work, say, the Magnus Rite Off or the Kurt Gerson stuff, those are almost detective kind of stories.
They almost are. And then I was using a mural head full, the effectuated. And I want to do some more about mural head full and have him a detective or a free agent or something like that.
It's like a lack of detective. In fact, that's how I got mural head full started because I wanted to have a... I wasn't so pleased with...
Magnus Rite Off was okay for his time, but I wanted to get something just a little bit different. And so I got mural head full.
And if I have time, I want to do some more. I've got...
Well, anyway, I was just going to say that I was going to confront mural head full with the task of discovering the perpetrator of a crime which had not been committed in an unknown world at an unknown time.
And nobody knows why. That was a problem he was going to face. Somebody was going to say, that's something I want you to do.
It solved this problem. And I went to doubt, actually, believe it or not.
In other words, if you have time to write it, you'll write something.
Yeah, I've tried to write it. I'll write it.
Yeah. Okay, I've noticed in the last few years, I'm not sure if this is true or not, but I've noticed an increasing critical attention to your work.
Is there more recognition on the...
Yeah, I've noticed that, too.
What's your reaction to that?
Well, every knock is a boost. More than better.
Okay.
In other words, if I get some critical attention, I'll start selling more. I'll make more money, which is the name of the game.
Yeah, I guess so. Do you...
Well, you certainly must have some desire to be in the far future, to be remembered and studied, or you just want to be noted as a freelance writer who made a living?
Well...
I mean, Fane.
Obviously, if I have to take my choice, I'll take the first one.
But...
The way I'd like to be remembered is as a very rich writer who changed the way that people perceive the world.
I'm just joking, of course. Got a label out of the joke.
I like that.
But I like the idea of being remembered as a very wealthy writer.
Okay.
Do you have any movie nibbles? That's the way to get wealthy.
Yeah, I know. Actually, I just had some just the other day.
But it's so tenuous. In fact, several nibbles, in particular.
In fact, we're not going to think about a little bit. There's one from France on Bad Rattles. I don't know if you know that story or not.
But to my terror, I find that I have been horror and agony. I find that I find a way all right through the thing.
I make a movie on that. In France, I am out. I don't get built.
So, in England, there's some kind of vague nibble on something else.
And then, just the other day, I was talking to some people from Hollywood. There's some nibbles on something else.
And then, again, as soon as I get to finish this thing, I'm going to start working on a treat without a expense story, which will be deep-seated daily.
I have a... My son and I, actually, together, we have to take a boat.
And we're trying to get out to sea, sail at least on the South Pacific Island.
And I've got the idea for a story, a sped story on this boat, and I'd like to see if I can make some money on it.
Okay, now, you've mentioned this throughout the talk. I just want to sort of draw this together now for your future plans for science fiction fantasy works.
You're going to do some more kugel, maybe. And you have just finished that long?
I just finished the first graph. Just finished it.
Okay, on that medieval-type book you said?
Yeah, it's medieval fantasy. It's like... It's not King Arthur's stuff.
It predates the legendary... Well, the whole Arthurian stuff. It's, say, 150 years before this.
And it's kind of a similar atmosphere, but all the difference. Similar but different.
But it's that kind of a locale. That of the Arthurian times, let's say. But it's got nothing to do with King Arthur's, nor any holy grails or anything like that.
Totally different.
And you may write some more Muroheadsel, too.
Yeah. If I get time, time is just a factor in all these things.
See, there's something else I wanted to do. I kind of forgot what it was then.
New course hall will come to me now.
There's Alastor. There's lots of Alastor. I've got 3,000 planets there to deal with.
Right.
And keep me busy a little bit.
Oh, there's lots of stuff to be done. All you have to do is just get started on it.
Yeah, okay. Listen, I just have maybe two more here.
My favorite story of yours, I don't know what you can say about this. I'm not even sure if I have a question on it, but is green magic?
I've always been fascinated with that. I've never read a story which, I don't know, gives the feeling of something remote, alien, you know, the green realm that you write about.
I detected a... I was going to ask you, my question was going to be this, it sounds dumb, but I was going to ask you if you're an optimistic individual because...
Yeah, I've been optimistic.
Okay, and in all of your work, you seem to have a great zest for life, you know, an experience and so forth. It's very evident.
But in some of your works, too, like in Green Magic, I detect almost an underlying tone of melancholy or sadness.
Well, it's hard to be... it's hard to be a continual optimist and it's not a very pleasant way to live to be a pessimist.
I much prefer being an optimist, but then on the other hand, it's evident to all of us that life is basically tragic.
You just get things going and then you're dead.
There's a... that's hard to refute.
And it's hard to be an optimism in the face of this rimmed, dark reality underneath, you know.
But as far as living from day to day, you might as well enjoy your life because you know what comes after.
Yeah, the way I connect that to Green Magic is that the protagonist, I forget his name, it's Harry, I can't remember,
he is never again going to be happy on Earth after he's experienced the Green Realm.
It's just... essentially the story is... it just remarks quietly that if you're able to achieve all your goals easily,
there's nothing to use but anymore.
I guess that... I don't want to put it into words like that too much because I did not have that in mind when I was writing it.
It was just... in fact, I wrote the thing, damn dog, it's yelling, it's somebody coming in.
I wrote the story without me... I bought mine just the way the story came.
That's the way it turned out.
In other words, I did not sit down and say I'm going to write the story about the futility of dreams or the horror of human existence.
I did not sit down and just write a story about Green Magic. That's what happened.
Okay, the last one I had, my friend here is... we sort of collect some of the works that the Special Lee houses put out, like Underwood Miller and so forth.
He wonders, do you know of anybody who might have one of those copies of Dying Earth and Underwood Miller did that they would sell?
I don't know.
Just offhand we thought.
I might have some extra ones, but I... Tim probably might have.
Tim, I do what he asked him was...
Yeah? Oh, okay. I might use it most of the time.
Yeah, what is it about then?
He was raised by a teenage kid. He watched me off the phone.
You think if he wrote Tim Underwood a letter and just asked him if he had any more extras?
No, I asked him once while he said, well...
You know, he says I should keep these things because they go up and appreciate what he says.
I just don't have people writing me for them and I just send them out and I don't know whether he has any more or not. Why don't you give him a call?
Yeah, okay, we will.
752-7902-0.
What's the area code? Where is he? Back in Pennsylvania?
Oh, I thought he was out there in the east.
No, that's Chuck Miller back in the east.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, it's just... he was there in Francisco.
Yeah, okay.
I might have some downstairs. I don't know how many I got. I might have one or two. I just don't know.
You must have been half your life signing some of those.
I've signed a lot of, yeah.
Yeah, I've taken it enough of your time, Mr. Vance. We really appreciate this. What we do now, this show probably won't go on until after the first of the year. We tape way ahead.
So when we get it edited, we will send you copies of the tape and look forward to your future work with great anticipation.
All right. Thank you very much.
And we appreciate the time very much.
Try to go home.
Thank you.
Bye.